src/backend.md, before:

# Backend Development Principles

## Database

1. Use foreign key constraints for foreign keys.

1. Use `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` (`TIMESTAMPTZ`) for timestamps.

1. Use `DATE` (not TIMESTAMP!) for dates.

1. Avoid JSON columns with a few exceptions:

   - We are saving raw data from an external service (for example, a Xero Invoice).
   - We are saving data with unpredictable nesting (for example, something like a form builder).

## Migrations

1. If you want to drop a column:

   1. Make a PR with removing column usage from your code
   1. Release to Production
   1. Make a PR with a migration that renames your column `mycolumn` => `mycolumn_dropme`
   1. Release to Production
   1. Wait a couple weeks
   1. Make a PR with completely dropping of the column

   Otherwise, if you will drop or rename a column in a single release with removing usage of it, Production will fail, because there is a time gap (about 30 minutes for Core and about 3 minutes for microservices) between a DB migration and deploying a new version of code.

1. If you want to update more than 1M of records:

   - Make a migration with a commented out body
   - Run the query manually from an SQL client

   You should do it because all migrations are running in a single DB transaction. Your huge update will lock many DB objects. And Production will be down for the entire duration of the migration.

1. Leave `down` migrations empty. They are not actually used, so it is not worth wasting time on them.

   ```
   // bad

   up: (queryInterface, Sequelize) => {
     return queryInterface.sequelize.query(`
       ALTER TABLE "lineItems" ADD COLUMN "migrationSourceData" JSONB;
     `);
   },

   down: (queryInterface, Sequelize) => {
     return queryInterface.sequelize.query(`
       ALTER TABLE "contacts" DROP COLUMN "migrationSourceData";
     `);
   },

   // good

   up: (queryInterface, Sequelize) => {
     return queryInterface.sequelize.query(`
       ALTER TABLE "lineItems" ADD COLUMN "migrationSourceData" JSONB;
     `);
   },

   down: () => {},
   ```

## Models

1. Do not use models from other models (except for associations). For example, you should not create a method in the `Ticket` model that will do `User.findAll()`. For such case you should create a service function that will use 2 models.

1. Do not use services from models.

1. Do not define enums in models, use enums from SDK.

1. Use `separate: true` include option for inner lists. Otherwise Sequelize will generate an inefficient SQL with JOINS and then reduce it on the Node.js part. Also it is imposible to have different `order` options for different entities without `separate: true`.

   ```
   // good

   const connections = await Connection.findAll({
     include: [
       Connection.institution,
       { association: Connection.accounts, order: [['id', 'ASC']], separate: true },
     ],
     where: filter,
     order: [['id', 'ASC']],
   });
   ```

## Controllers

1. Use the [Lambda Controller Sample](https://github.com/OsomePteLtd/principles/blob/main/src/samples/lambda/bankAccount.controller.ts) to create a CRUDL scaffolding controller.

1. Use 1 file per 1 resource.

1. Exceptions should be handled universally in a middlware (for Koa / Express) or in a wrapper function (for microservices).

   ```
   // bad

   async function create(req: Request, res: Response, next: NextFunction) {
     try {
       // ...
       const template = await TemplateService.createTemplate(data);
       // ...
     } catch (err) {
       if (err instanceof UniqueConstraintError) {
         return res.status(422).json({
           type: 'UniqueConstraintError',
           message: 'Template with such alias and branch already exists',
         });
       }
       next(err);
     }
   }
   ```

1. Validate requests by schemas.

   ```
   // bad

   export const index = api(async (event: any) => {
     const company = await validateCompany({
       companyId: event.pathParameters.companyId,
     });
     // ...
   });

   // good

   export const index = api(async (event: APIGatewayEvent) => {
     const request = castAndValidateEvent<AcBankAccountIndexRequest>(
       event,
       schemas.AcBankAccountIndexRequest,
     );
     const company = await validateCompany({
       companyId: request.pathParameters.companyId,
     });
     // ...
   });
   ```

1. Serialize responses by schemas.

   ```
   // bad

   return {
     body: { bankAccounts },
   };

   // good

   return {
     body: serialize({ bankAccounts }, schemas.AcBankAccountListResponse),
   };
   ```

1. Use service functions for creating, updating and deleting entities and use directly ORM `find*` functions for querying entities. More info in [Services](#services).

1. Use the following query parameters for list requests:

   - `search` - for a text search query
   - `filter` - for filtering parameters
   - `sort` - for ordering
   - `page` - for a page number, starts from 1
   - `perPage` - for a page size

   All query parameters should be optional and should have default values.

   Examples:

   ```
   /companies?page=3&perPage=25
   /companies?filter[status]=active&sort=name
   ```

1. Use the following fields for list responses:

   - entiry name in plural (for example `companyUsers`) - for entities
   - `page` - for a page number, starts from 1
   - `perPage` - for a page size
   - `totalCount` - for a total count of entities found by a query

   Example:

   ```
   {
      companyUsers: [...],
      page: 1,
      perPage: 25,
      totalCount: 31
   }
   ```

## Services

1. Business logic should be inside services.

1. The right file name for a service will be `services/model.service.ts` or `services/domain.service.ts`.

1. All methods for creating, updating and destroying models should be wrapped into service functions. For example, there should be `createUser` service function instead of using `User.create` from controllers. In this case, for example, a socket call goes to such a service function.

1. Do not add `find*` service functions, use directly ORM `find*` functions from controllers instead. Exception: the finder function is very complex and has very specific domain logic, so it’s guaranteed it will not be used by different parts of the app. E.g., `findAllDocumentsRelatedToDocumentThroughReconciliations`.

## Jobs

1. SQS handlers should be jobs.

1. The right file name for a job will be `jobs/model.job.ts` or `jobs/domain.job.ts`.

   ```
   // bad

   jobs/downloadInvoice.job.ts

   // good

   jobs/invoice.job.ts
   ```

1. A job function should have the `Job` suffix, for example `syncTransactionsJob()`.

1. A job function should be a thin wrapper for a service function.

   ```
   // bad

   export async function syncAccountsJob({ connectionId }: { connectionId: number }) {
     // very complex in-place logic
   }

   // good

   export async function syncAccountsJob({ connectionId }: { connectionId: number }) {
     debug(`[syncAccountsJob] connectionId = ${connectionId}`);
     const connection = await Connection.findByPk(connectionId, { rejectOnEmpty: true });
     await syncAccounts(connection);
     debug(`[syncAccountsJob] connectionId = ${connectionId}, done`);
   }
   ```

## Tests

1. All HTTP endpoints, lambdas and jobs should be covered by tests.

1. Prefer to write integration tests rather then unit tests, i.e. it is better to write a test for a controller than for a service. Write unit tests only for covering some corner cases that are difficult to cover with integration tests.

1. Use seed functions for preparing a database state for your tests. Use `faker` for random values and use other seed functions for associations.

   Example:

   ```
   export async function seedConnection(overrides: Partial<ConnectionAttributes> = {}) {
     let { institutionId } = overrides;
     if (!institutionId) {
       const institution = await seedInstitution();
       institutionId = institution.id;
     }
     const defaults: Partial<ConnectionAttributes> & ConnectionAttributesNew = {
       institutionId,
       companyId: generateFakeId(),
       externalId: faker.random.uuid(),
       accessToken: faker.random.uuid(),
       status: ConnectionStatus.active,
     };
     const attributes = { ...defaults, ...overrides };
     return Connection.create({
       ...attributes,
       accessToken: encrypt(attributes.accessToken),
     });
   }
   ```

1. Do not seed common data for multiple tests in `beforeEach`, keep you tests isolated. More info [here](https://thoughtbot.com/blog/lets-not).

1. Use `describe` blocks for each endpoint.

1. A first test in a `describe` block should be a test for a basic scenario. The good name for this test will be `success`.

   Example:

   ```
   describe('POST /bank/links', () => {
     it('success', async () => {
       // ...
     });
   });
   ```

1. Group ACL tests for each endpoint into "ACL" `describe` blocks.

   Example:

   ```
   describe('POST /bank/links', () => {
     // ...

     describe('ACL', () => {
       it('fails without permissions', async () => {
         // ...
       });
     });
   });
   ```

1. If you use a stub then you must check a call and/or calls arguments

Commit message:

backend: no explicit index name

src/backend.md, after:

# Backend Development Principles

## Database

1. Use foreign key constraints for foreign keys.

1. Use `TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE` (`TIMESTAMPTZ`) for timestamps.

1. Use `DATE` (not TIMESTAMP!) for dates.

1. Avoid JSON columns with a few exceptions:

   - We are saving raw data from an external service (for example, a Xero Invoice).
   - We are saving data with unpredictable nesting (for example, something like a form builder).

## Migrations

1. If you want to drop a column:

   1. Make a PR with removing column usage from your code
   1. Release to Production
   1. Make a PR with a migration that renames your column `mycolumn` => `mycolumn_dropme`
   1. Release to Production
   1. Wait a couple weeks
   1. Make a PR with completely dropping of the column

   Otherwise, if you will drop or rename a column in a single release with removing usage of it, Production will fail, because there is a time gap (about 30 minutes for Core and about 3 minutes for microservices) between a DB migration and deploying a new version of code.

1. If you want to update more than 1M of records:

   - Make a migration with a commented out body
   - Run the query manually from an SQL client

   You should do it because all migrations are running in a single DB transaction. Your huge update will lock many DB objects. And Production will be down for the entire duration of the migration.

1. Leave `down` migrations empty. They are not actually used, so it is not worth wasting time on them.

   ```
   // bad

   up: (queryInterface, Sequelize) => {
     return queryInterface.sequelize.query(`
       ALTER TABLE "lineItems" ADD COLUMN "migrationSourceData" JSONB;
     `);
   },

   down: (queryInterface, Sequelize) => {
     return queryInterface.sequelize.query(`
       ALTER TABLE "contacts" DROP COLUMN "migrationSourceData";
     `);
   },

   // good

   up: (queryInterface, Sequelize) => {
     return queryInterface.sequelize.query(`
       ALTER TABLE "lineItems" ADD COLUMN "migrationSourceData" JSONB;
     `);
   },

   down: () => {},
   ```

1. Do not explicitly specify the index name and let the database set it since it:

   - Is easier
   - Does not require to use any specific organization-wide convention, we simply use the standard one

## Models

1. Do not use models from other models (except for associations). For example, you should not create a method in the `Ticket` model that will do `User.findAll()`. For such case you should create a service function that will use 2 models.

1. Do not use services from models.

1. Do not define enums in models, use enums from SDK.

1. Use `separate: true` include option for inner lists. Otherwise Sequelize will generate an inefficient SQL with JOINS and then reduce it on the Node.js part. Also it is imposible to have different `order` options for different entities without `separate: true`.

   ```
   // good

   const connections = await Connection.findAll({
     include: [
       Connection.institution,
       { association: Connection.accounts, order: [['id', 'ASC']], separate: true },
     ],
     where: filter,
     order: [['id', 'ASC']],
   });
   ```

## Controllers

1. Use the [Lambda Controller Sample](https://github.com/OsomePteLtd/principles/blob/main/src/samples/lambda/bankAccount.controller.ts) to create a CRUDL scaffolding controller.

1. Use 1 file per 1 resource.

1. Exceptions should be handled universally in a middlware (for Koa / Express) or in a wrapper function (for microservices).

   ```
   // bad

   async function create(req: Request, res: Response, next: NextFunction) {
     try {
       // ...
       const template = await TemplateService.createTemplate(data);
       // ...
     } catch (err) {
       if (err instanceof UniqueConstraintError) {
         return res.status(422).json({
           type: 'UniqueConstraintError',
           message: 'Template with such alias and branch already exists',
         });
       }
       next(err);
     }
   }
   ```

1. Validate requests by schemas.

   ```
   // bad

   export const index = api(async (event: any) => {
     const company = await validateCompany({
       companyId: event.pathParameters.companyId,
     });
     // ...
   });

   // good

   export const index = api(async (event: APIGatewayEvent) => {
     const request = castAndValidateEvent<AcBankAccountIndexRequest>(
       event,
       schemas.AcBankAccountIndexRequest,
     );
     const company = await validateCompany({
       companyId: request.pathParameters.companyId,
     });
     // ...
   });
   ```

1. Serialize responses by schemas.

   ```
   // bad

   return {
     body: { bankAccounts },
   };

   // good

   return {
     body: serialize({ bankAccounts }, schemas.AcBankAccountListResponse),
   };
   ```

1. Use service functions for creating, updating and deleting entities and use directly ORM `find*` functions for querying entities. More info in [Services](#services).

1. Use the following query parameters for list requests:

   - `search` - for a text search query
   - `filter` - for filtering parameters
   - `sort` - for ordering
   - `page` - for a page number, starts from 1
   - `perPage` - for a page size

   All query parameters should be optional and should have default values.

   Examples:

   ```
   /companies?page=3&perPage=25
   /companies?filter[status]=active&sort=name
   ```

1. Use the following fields for list responses:

   - entiry name in plural (for example `companyUsers`) - for entities
   - `page` - for a page number, starts from 1
   - `perPage` - for a page size
   - `totalCount` - for a total count of entities found by a query

   Example:

   ```
   {
      companyUsers: [...],
      page: 1,
      perPage: 25,
      totalCount: 31
   }
   ```

## Services

1. Business logic should be inside services.

1. The right file name for a service will be `services/model.service.ts` or `services/domain.service.ts`.

1. All methods for creating, updating and destroying models should be wrapped into service functions. For example, there should be `createUser` service function instead of using `User.create` from controllers. In this case, for example, a socket call goes to such a service function.

1. Do not add `find*` service functions, use directly ORM `find*` functions from controllers instead. Exception: the finder function is very complex and has very specific domain logic, so it’s guaranteed it will not be used by different parts of the app. E.g., `findAllDocumentsRelatedToDocumentThroughReconciliations`.

## Jobs

1. SQS handlers should be jobs.

1. The right file name for a job will be `jobs/model.job.ts` or `jobs/domain.job.ts`.

   ```
   // bad

   jobs/downloadInvoice.job.ts

   // good

   jobs/invoice.job.ts
   ```

1. A job function should have the `Job` suffix, for example `syncTransactionsJob()`.

1. A job function should be a thin wrapper for a service function.

   ```
   // bad

   export async function syncAccountsJob({ connectionId }: { connectionId: number }) {
     // very complex in-place logic
   }

   // good

   export async function syncAccountsJob({ connectionId }: { connectionId: number }) {
     debug(`[syncAccountsJob] connectionId = ${connectionId}`);
     const connection = await Connection.findByPk(connectionId, { rejectOnEmpty: true });
     await syncAccounts(connection);
     debug(`[syncAccountsJob] connectionId = ${connectionId}, done`);
   }
   ```

## Tests

1. All HTTP endpoints, lambdas and jobs should be covered by tests.

1. Prefer to write integration tests rather then unit tests, i.e. it is better to write a test for a controller than for a service. Write unit tests only for covering some corner cases that are difficult to cover with integration tests.

1. Use seed functions for preparing a database state for your tests. Use `faker` for random values and use other seed functions for associations.

   Example:

   ```
   export async function seedConnection(overrides: Partial<ConnectionAttributes> = {}) {
     let { institutionId } = overrides;
     if (!institutionId) {
       const institution = await seedInstitution();
       institutionId = institution.id;
     }
     const defaults: Partial<ConnectionAttributes> & ConnectionAttributesNew = {
       institutionId,
       companyId: generateFakeId(),
       externalId: faker.random.uuid(),
       accessToken: faker.random.uuid(),
       status: ConnectionStatus.active,
     };
     const attributes = { ...defaults, ...overrides };
     return Connection.create({
       ...attributes,
       accessToken: encrypt(attributes.accessToken),
     });
   }
   ```

1. Do not seed common data for multiple tests in `beforeEach`, keep you tests isolated. More info [here](https://thoughtbot.com/blog/lets-not).

1. Use `describe` blocks for each endpoint.

1. A first test in a `describe` block should be a test for a basic scenario. The good name for this test will be `success`.

   Example:

   ```
   describe('POST /bank/links', () => {
     it('success', async () => {
       // ...
     });
   });
   ```

1. Group ACL tests for each endpoint into "ACL" `describe` blocks.

   Example:

   ```
   describe('POST /bank/links', () => {
     // ...

     describe('ACL', () => {
       it('fails without permissions', async () => {
         // ...
       });
     });
   });
   ```

1. If you use a stub then you must check a call and/or calls arguments
