src/general.md, before:

# General Development Principles

    “I read a study that measured the efficiency of locomotion for various species on the planet.
    The condor used the least energy to move a kilometer. And, humans came in with a rather unimpressive showing,
    about a third of the way down the list. It was not too proud a showing for the crown of creation. So, that
    didn’t look so good. But, then somebody at Scientific American had the insight to test the efficiency of
    locomotion for a man on a bicycle. And, a man on a bicycle, a human on a bicycle, blew the condor away,
    completely off the top of the charts. And that’s what a computer is to me.” - Steve Jobs

We believe it describes very precisely what we’re doing here: we’re creating an accounting / corpsec bicycle.

## Pull Requests

1. Make your pull requests focused:

   - A pull request should do 1 thing and have a simple title.

   - Avoid mixing in a single pull request with a product feature something subjective like changing a linter config. A reviewer may agree with the main code, but a dispute about the linter config will start, and as a result, everything drags on. Make minor changes in a separate PR and make the discussion on different parts parallel.

1. Avoid large pull requests:

   - Large pull requests are hard to review, try to split your tasks into small steps.

   - Minimize the diff, avoid reformatting of code that is irrelevant to your pull request.

1. Provide context for reviewers:

   - Choose a good title for your pull request.

   - Provide a link to Jira and a short description of what your pull request should do.

   - Add comments to all lines of code that could potentially raise questions from reviewers (via GitHub comments, not in code).

1. Make your pull request initially good:

   - For example, if you will not add tests, then the first comment will be about tests, avoid unnecessary rounds of reviews.

## Branches

Now we are working in different countries (`branch` attribute) and it is important to understand that we have no concept of "default branch" in any scenarios. A branch always and everywhere must be explicitly received, since all countries are equal and there is no fallback, for example, to Singapore, if a person has a company in the UK.

## Clean Code

1. Do not use abbreviations for names (variables, functions, etc). Exceptions are `map` / `reduce`. For such case use 1 letter abbreviations.

   ```
   // bad

   const docs = Document.findAll();

   // good

   const documents = Document.findAll();

   // ok

   const documentIds = documents.map(d => d.id);
   ```

1. Plural for compound names:

   ```
   // bad

   documentsIds, documentsId

   // good

   documentIds
   ```

1. Pattern "Loop + Function". If you have more then 1 line of code inside a loop, it is a sign that you need to extract a function.

   ```
   // bad

   for (const plaidAccount of plaidAccounts) {
     if (plaidAccount.balances.iso_currency_code) {
       const existedAccount = await Account.findOne(...);
       // ...
     }
   }

   // good

   for (const plaidAccount of plaidAccounts) {
     await syncAccount(plaidAccount);
   }

   async function syncAccount(plaidAccount) {
     if (!plaidAccount.balances.iso_currency_code) {
       return;
     }
     const existedAccount = await Account.findOne(...);
     // ...
   }
   ```

1. An anonymous flag in arguments list is unacceptable

   ```
   // bad
   function createUser(attributes, auditLogs: boolean) { ... }
   createUser({ ... }, true) // what is true here?

   // good
   function createUser(attributes, { auditLogs }: { auditLogs: boolean })
   ```

## Tests

1. Do not use `?` in tests, use `!`.

   ```
   // bad

   expect(journal.journalEntries?.map((je) => je.toJSON())).toMatchObject([
     {
       debitAccountId: templateDebitAccount.id,
       creditAccountId: lineItemAccount.id,
     },
   ]);

   // good

   expect(journal.journalEntries!.map((je) => je.toJSON())).toMatchObject([
     {
       debitAccountId: templateDebitAccount.id,
       creditAccountId: lineItemAccount.id,
     },
   ]);
   ```

## Comments

1. Use comments to add context or information that is not obvious from the code already. Don't use comments to explain the code itself - code (through proper naming) should be self-explanatory.

1. Use TODO prefix in comments to track and document technical debt - things that are worth doing, but not done yet.

1. It's considered a bad practice to comment out raw code. Commented code causes ["broken windows"](https://blog.codinghorror.com/pragmatic-programming/), increases cognitve load on developers, lacks support (commented code almost always doesn't work) and lacks test coverage. For detailed explanation, see [link 1](https://www.markhneedham.com/blog/2009/01/17/the-danger-of-commenting-out-code/), [link 2](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/please-dont-commit-commented-out-code)

Commit message:

general: on PR auto-merge (#26)

src/general.md, after:

# General Development Principles

    “I read a study that measured the efficiency of locomotion for various species on the planet.
    The condor used the least energy to move a kilometer. And, humans came in with a rather unimpressive showing,
    about a third of the way down the list. It was not too proud a showing for the crown of creation. So, that
    didn’t look so good. But, then somebody at Scientific American had the insight to test the efficiency of
    locomotion for a man on a bicycle. And, a man on a bicycle, a human on a bicycle, blew the condor away,
    completely off the top of the charts. And that’s what a computer is to me.” - Steve Jobs

We believe it describes very precisely what we’re doing here: we’re creating an accounting / corpsec bicycle 🚲.

## Pull Requests

1. Make your pull requests focused:

   - A pull request should do 1 thing and have a simple title.

   - Avoid mixing in a single pull request with a product feature something subjective like changing a linter config. A reviewer may agree with the main code, but a dispute about the linter config will start, and as a result, everything drags on. Make minor changes in a separate PR and make the discussion on different parts parallel.

1. Avoid large pull requests:

   - Large pull requests are hard to review, try to split your tasks into small steps.

   - Minimize the diff, avoid reformatting of code that is irrelevant to your pull request.

1. Provide context for reviewers:

   - Choose a good title for your pull request.

   - Provide a link to Jira and a short description of what your pull request should do.

   - Add comments to all lines of code that could potentially raise questions from reviewers (via GitHub comments, not in code).

1. Make your pull request initially good:

   - For example, if you will not add tests, then the first comment will be about tests, avoid unnecessary rounds of reviews.

1. How to use auto-merge:

   // bad

   Create a pull request, enable auto-merge

   // good

   Create a pull request, get all required approves.

   If there is a small change like a typo fix or rename, push a fix and enable auto-merge.

   Why? We have a practice that the reviewer adds minor comments and approves the pull request. In this case, you will not have a chance to fix them before merging.

## Branches

Now we are working in different countries (`branch` attribute) and it is important to understand that we have no concept of "default branch" in any scenarios. A branch always and everywhere must be explicitly received, since all countries are equal and there is no fallback, for example, to Singapore, if a person has a company in the UK.

## Clean Code

1. Do not use abbreviations for names (variables, functions, etc). Exceptions are `map` / `reduce`. For such case use 1 letter abbreviations.

   ```
   // bad

   const docs = Document.findAll();

   // good

   const documents = Document.findAll();

   // ok

   const documentIds = documents.map(d => d.id);
   ```

1. Plural for compound names:

   ```
   // bad

   documentsIds, documentsId

   // good

   documentIds
   ```

1. Pattern "Loop + Function". If you have more then 1 line of code inside a loop, it is a sign that you need to extract a function.

   ```
   // bad

   for (const plaidAccount of plaidAccounts) {
     if (plaidAccount.balances.iso_currency_code) {
       const existedAccount = await Account.findOne(...);
       // ...
     }
   }

   // good

   for (const plaidAccount of plaidAccounts) {
     await syncAccount(plaidAccount);
   }

   async function syncAccount(plaidAccount) {
     if (!plaidAccount.balances.iso_currency_code) {
       return;
     }
     const existedAccount = await Account.findOne(...);
     // ...
   }
   ```

1. An anonymous flag in arguments list is unacceptable

   ```
   // bad
   function createUser(attributes, auditLogs: boolean) { ... }
   createUser({ ... }, true) // what is true here?

   // good
   function createUser(attributes, { auditLogs }: { auditLogs: boolean })
   ```

## Tests

1. Do not use `?` in tests, use `!`.

   ```
   // bad

   expect(journal.journalEntries?.map((je) => je.toJSON())).toMatchObject([
     {
       debitAccountId: templateDebitAccount.id,
       creditAccountId: lineItemAccount.id,
     },
   ]);

   // good

   expect(journal.journalEntries!.map((je) => je.toJSON())).toMatchObject([
     {
       debitAccountId: templateDebitAccount.id,
       creditAccountId: lineItemAccount.id,
     },
   ]);
   ```

## Comments

1. Use comments to add context or information that is not obvious from the code already. Don't use comments to explain the code itself - code (through proper naming) should be self-explanatory.

1. Use TODO prefix in comments to track and document technical debt - things that are worth doing, but not done yet.

1. It's considered a bad practice to comment out raw code. Commented code causes ["broken windows"](https://blog.codinghorror.com/pragmatic-programming/), increases cognitve load on developers, lacks support (commented code almost always doesn't work) and lacks test coverage. For detailed explanation, see [link 1](https://www.markhneedham.com/blog/2009/01/17/the-danger-of-commenting-out-code/), [link 2](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/please-dont-commit-commented-out-code)
